cloud: suport GCP Tokyo region for data migration (#12878)
pingcap/docs: tidb-cloud/migrate-from-mysql-using-data-migration.md

---
title: Migrate MySQL-Compatible Databases to TiDB Cloud Using Data Migration
summary: Learn how to migrate data from MySQL-compatible databases hosted in Amazon Aurora MySQL, Amazon Relational Database Service (RDS),Google Cloud SQL for MySQL,or a local MySQL instance to TiDB Cloud using Data Migration.
---

# Migrate MySQL-Compatible Databases to TiDB Cloud Using Data Migration

This document describes how to migrate data from a MySQL-compatible database on a cloud provider (Amazon Aurora MySQL, Amazon Relational Database Service (RDS), or Google Cloud SQL for MySQL) or on-premises to TiDB Cloud using the Data Migration feature of the TiDB Cloud console.

> This feature helps you migrate your source databases' existing data and ongoing changes to TiDB Cloud (either in the same region or cross regions)directly in one go. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This feature helps you migrate your source databases' existing data and ongoing changes to TiDB Cloud (either in the same region or cross regions) directly in one go. 
```

# Migrate MySQL-Compatible Databases to TiDB Cloud Using Data Migration

> This document describes how to migrate data from a MySQL-compatible database on a cloud provider (Amazon Aurora MySQL or Amazon Relational Database Service (RDS),Google Cloud SQL for MySQL) or on-premises to TiDB Cloud using the Data Migration feature of the TiDB Cloud console.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This document describes how to migrate data from a MySQL-compatible database on a cloud provider (Amazon Aurora MySQL, Amazon Relational Database Service (RDS), or Google Cloud SQL for MySQL) or on-premises to TiDB Cloud using the Data Migration feature of the TiDB Cloud console.
```

    - AWS Tokyo (ap-northeast-1)
    - AWS Frankfurt (eu-central-1)
    - AWS Seoul (ap-northeast-2)

>     - GCP Tokyo (asia-northeast1)

Author: ```suggestion
    - GCP Tokyo (asia-northeast1) 
```

- MySQL 5.6, 5.7, and 8.0 local instances or on a public cloud provider. Note that MySQL 8.0 is still experimental on TiDB Cloud and might have incompatibility issues.
- Amazon Aurora (MySQL 5.6 and 5.7)
- Amazon RDS (MySQL 5.7)

> - Google Cloud SQL for (MySQL 5.6 and 5.7) 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Google Cloud SQL for MySQL 5.6 and 5.7
```

- If you use AWS PrivateLink, set it up according to [Set Up Private Endpoint Connections](/tidb-cloud/set-up-private-endpoint-connections.md).

- If you use AWS VPC Peering, see the following instructions to configure the network.

>     <details>

Reviewer: <details> 部分不能缩进，否则发布的时候会出问题。需要顶格。

    <summary> Set up AWS VPC Peering</summary>

    If your MySQL service is in an AWS VPC, take the following steps:

    1. [Set up a VPC peering connection](/tidb-cloud/set-up-vpc-peering-connections.md) between the VPC of the MySQL service and your TiDB cluster.

    2. Modify the inbound rules of the security group that the MySQL service is associated with.

        You must add [the CIDR of the region where your TiDB Cloud cluster is located](/tidb-cloud/set-up-vpc-peering-connections.md#prerequisite-set-a-project-cidr) to the inbound rules. Doing so allows the traffic to flow from your TiDB cluster to the MySQL instance.

    3. If the MySQL URL contains a DNS hostname, you need to allow TiDB Cloud to be able to resolve the hostname of the MySQL service.

        1. Follow the steps in [Enable DNS resolution for a VPC peering connection](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/peering/modify-peering-connections.html#vpc-peering-dns).
        2. Enable the **Accepter DNS resolution** option.

    </details>

- If you use GCP VPC Network Peering, see the following instructions to configure the network.

>     <details>

Reviewer 2: `<details>` 缩进问题，同上

</details>

<details>
<summary> Set up GCP VPC Network Peering </summary>

If your MySQL service is in an GCP VPC, take the following steps:

1. If it is a self-hosted mysql, please skip this step and go to the second step.If your MySQL service is Google Cloud SQL, you must expose a MySQL endpoint in the associated VPC of the Google Cloud SQL instance. You may need to use the [Cloud SQL Auth proxy](https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/mysql/sql-proxy) which is developed by Google.

2. [Set up a VPC peering connection](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/set-up-vpc-peering-connections) between the VPC of the MySQL service and your TiDB cluster.

3. Modify the ingress firewall rules of the VPC where MySQL is located.

>     You must add [the CIDR of the region where your TiDB Cloud cluster is located](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/set-up-vpc-peering-connections#prerequisite-set-a-project-cidr) to the ingress firewall rules. Doing so allows the traffic to flow from your TiDB Cluster to the MySQL endpoint. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    You must add [the CIDR of the region where your TiDB Cloud cluster is located](/tidb-cloud/set-up-vpc-peering-connections.md#prerequisite-set-a-project-cidr) to the ingress firewall rules, which allows the traffic to flow from your TiDB cluster to the MySQL endpoint. 
```

5. Take action according to the message you see:

    - If you use Public IP or VPC Peering, you need to add the Data Migration service's IP addresses to the IP Access List of your source database and firewall (if any).

>     - If you use AWS Private Link, you are prompted to accept the endpoint request. Go to the [AWS VPC console](https://us-west-2.console.aws.amazon.com/vpc/home), and click **Endpoint services** to accept the endpoint request.

Reviewer: 用 GCP 有类似的问题吗？

Author: GCP 还不支持 Private link 所以暂时没有这个问题

5. Take action according to the message you see:

    - If you use Public IP or VPC Peering, you need to add the Data Migration service's IP addresses to the IP Access List of your source database and firewall (if any).
    - If you use AWS Private Link, you are prompted to accept the endpoint request. Go to the [AWS VPC console](https://us-west-2.console.aws.amazon.com/vpc/home), and click **Endpoint services** to accept the endpoint request.

## Step 3: Choose the objects to be migrated

1. Choose existing data migration, incremental data migration, or both by choosing the checkboxes.

    > **Tip:**
    >

>     > - To migrate data to TiDB Cloud once and for all, choose both **existing data migration** and **Incremental data migration**, which ensures data consistency between the source and target databases.

Reviewer 2: 界面上显示的是 Existing data migration 吗

>     > - To migrate only the existing data of the source database to TiDB Cloud, only choose the **existing data migration** checkbox.

Reviewer 2: 同上

2. On the **Choose Objects to Migrate** page, select the objects to be migrated. You can click **All** to select all objects, or click **Customize** and then click the checkbox next to the object name to select the object.

>     - If you click **All**, the migration job will migrate the existing data from the whole source database instance to TiDB Cloud and replicate ongoing changes after the full migration. Note that it happens only if you have selected the **existing data migration** and **Incremental data migration** checkboxes in the previous step.

Reviewer 2: 同上

        <img src="https://download.pingcap.com/images/docs/tidb-cloud/migration-job-select-all.png" width="60%" />

>     - If you click **Customize** and select some databases, the migration job will migrate the existing data and replicate ongoing changes of the selected databases to TiDB Cloud. Note that it happens only if you have selected the **existing data migration** and **Incremental data migration** checkboxes in the previous step.

Reviewer 2: 同上
